---
layout: post
title: A side quest for nachos
categories: 
    - Travel
    - Food
---

One of the most fun and spontaneous things I did while in university was to drive with some friends was take a day trip from Vancouver, BC to Friday Harbor in the San Juan Islands. It was an entire day event leaving before 6 in the morning and arriving back in Vancouver close to 8pm. Getting up that early after a long week of school wasn't something I wasn't really looking forward to, but there I was outside my house waiting to get picked up. When the car pulled up it was two people I knew and two I had never met, and again I thought to myself: "what am I doing here?" As we set off, we all started talking and I ended up enjoying the company. The first stop post border was the Doughnut House in Anacortes, Washington on the way to the ferry. It's a funny place basically a small shack thats a 24 hour doughnut shop that also sells coffee. We hung out there for a little to kill time before grabbing the 8:30 ferry out to the island. 

Once there we did some "sightseeing" around the town (a very small town with maybe like 20 businesses) before going over to the whale museum. We decided to drive around the island for a bit and ended up all just taking a nap in the car in the parking lot of a national park on the island. To me it says a lot that a group of people that had just met were comfortable enough with each other that we could all just sleep (and snore) around each other within a few hours of meeting. 

THe last thing we did before heading back to the island was the main selling point of the trip by the organizer: nachos. To be honest none of the food on the island looked to be that amazing, but the organizer did a really good job of selling the nachos from this sports bar on the island. To be honest they were pretty good, maybe partly because of the anticipation but also just the company. Overall a very fun trip and a very college experience: going on an adventure for some random thing with a bunch of people.