---
layout: post
title: Buffalo is growing on me
categories:
    - Personal
    - PhD
---

To my incredible surprise, Buffalo is growing on me. I think its due to a few factors including 1) where I'm living (Elmwood Village), which has lots of coffee shops and restaurants I can actually walk to 2) I actually get to do what I'm interested instead of being in the trenches of random hard as hell classes and 3) the people I've met.

The classes thing might actually be the biggest reason I didn't like it thee first time I was here, my first semester I took three of the toughest classes possible in conjunction: Operating System, Networking, and Analysis of Algorithms. Two of them (OS and networking) were subject I had never even touched before, had really touch projects in C which I had never used before, and Analysis of Algorithms is CS theory, which is and always has been my worst area. This means that I had literally no time to do anything and was constantly stressed that I was behind and was going to fail out in my first semester. 

This constant work with no time to do basically anything else made it hard to meet people, and the one person I thought I was friends with turned out to be a giant asshole (whole long story, maybe I'll write a post about it), and was always asking of my without giving anything in return. This time, not only do I get along, and also work, really well with my advisor, which is very important for a PhD, but also have some budding friendships. I've only really interacted with one person in my lab during meetings but I want to try and talk to him more, but the other two people in my lab do seem fun. I also feel like I have the start of a friendship with the person whose desk is next to mine in the lab. 